Add migration and upgrade guide for cbdb 2.0 (#287)
apache/cloudberry-site: docs/sys-admin/migration-and-upgrade.md

---
title: Migration and Upgrade
toc_max_heading_level: 5
---

# Migration and Upgrade

This guide provides detailed instructions for two scenarios:
1. Migrating from Greenplum Database 6.x/7.x to Cloudberry Database

> 2. Upgrading from Cloudberry Database 1.x to Cloudberry Database 2.x

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Upgrading from Apache Cloudberry 1.x (non-Apache release before joining the Apache Incubator) to Apache Cloudberry 2.x
```

Also, we need to replace the `Cloudberry Database` with `Apache Cloudberry` in the docs.

Both scenarios utilize the `cbcopy` tool, a powerful data migration utility designed for efficient database migration and upgrade operations.

## Prerequisites

Before starting the migration or upgrade process, ensure you have:

1. Go Programming language version 1.19 or higher installed
2. Superuser privileges on both source and target databases
3. Network connectivity between source and target database clusters
4. Sufficient disk space on both source and target clusters
5. The `cbcopy` and `cbcopy_helper` binaries installed in the `$GPHOME/bin` directory on all nodes of both source and target databases

## Installing cbcopy

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/HashDataInc/cbcopy.git
```

> 

Reviewer: Can add one disclaimer on cbcopy:

```
:::note
cbcopy is contributed by community members; however, please note that it is not maintained as an official Cloudberry project.
:::
```
